- [Instructor] In a similar vein to log aggregation,
operationally, metrics are invaluable to diagnosing issues.
In fact, metrics can be more powerful
than logging if used correctly.
Metrics is also easier than logging
because there's really less human interaction.
Logging relies on a developer to write
and structure the log message.
Metrics, however, usually just requires
a bit of instrumentation.
The problem we're looking to solve
is that we need to know what is going on with the system
or service at a system level.
We aren't really looking at code output,
we're looking for system output.
Once again, a common taxonomy is critical with metrics.
Structuring your keys to be consistent and descriptive
will help explain what the ultimate dashboards are saying.
As with logging, much has been done already,
and there are standard metrics libraries available
in almost every language to generate metrics.
While much of the metrics you collect are system level
and runtime component data points,
you may want to also decorate your metrics dashboards
with custom metrics.
Metric shipping is accomplished again
via standard componentry.
Most metrics aggregation solutions have one or more
shipping standards that already exist, so just use them.
Once your metrics are shipped,
you can view them usually graphically
through a metrics aggregation solution.
Dashboards are powerful, especially for on-call activity.
Metrics aggregation is relatively simple,
but it is critical in an operational model.
I have learned the hard way to not ignore metrics ever.
As such, I want to share with you a few lessons
I have learned over time,
and how I use them still to this day.
First and foremost, I would recommend that you build
very high level dashboards.
Your on-call engineer can use these high level dashboards
as a place to see trouble starting before it takes hold.
Don't make these dashboards too busy,
but make them busy enough that you can see
the true health of your system as a whole.
In addition to those high level dashboards,
you want to then build detailed dashboards for each service.
The high level is an aggregated and simplified view.
But once you think you have a problem,
the detailed dashboard can provide
much more insight into the system.
I usually embed links to log queries
in my metrics dashboard, because at two in the morning,
building a log query with the stress of an outage
after being woken up from sleep isn't very appealing.
Consider also injecting events into your dashboards.
System events that can impact system performance,
as well as user events, can help you understand
what systems are being impacted.
In addition, deployment events can help understand
if you have code issues that are impacting the system
as a whole based on newly introduced code.
If you can, put traces on your graphs at alarm points.
If you're going to get paged,
having a reason for the page visually
can help promote a quicker meantime to resolution.
Again, consider the middle of the night scenario
of being woken up by a page.
Finally, ensure you have runbooks for every alarm
and explanation of metrics and logs to look at.
Metrics and log aggregations both are about identifying
as well as resolving issues.
If you build an alarm, you know why the alarm fired.
The runbook will make troubleshooting significantly easier.
I embed links to runbooks into the pages themselves,
as well as the dashboards,
again, making life easier for on-call,
which ultimately is the point of all operational patterns.